[narrator]  In Florida,
an officer is taken
for a ride.
[Officer Cusack]  My heels
are just sliding
across the ground.
I am literally skiing,
holding on to the door.
We are doing
about 45 miles an hour.
So, I just hold on
for dear life.
[narrator]  In Georgia,
an ambush is about to happen
[Officer Wilcox]  I didn't kn
if this person was
coming after us.
I didn't know
if he was behind us.
[narrator]  And in Michigan,
a traffic pursuit
goes horribly wrong.
[Sgt Holdwick]  He wasn't
running because he didn't want
a traffic ticket.
It was something else.
[Former Deputy]  I knew
he was gonna make a dash.
The terrain was awful.
I did consider
the potential of an ambush.
[indistinct radio chatter]
[voice over radio]
Shots fired, 10-4.
[officer] Sheriff's Office,
come outside!
[narrator]  12-miles southwes
of Fort Lauderdale,
is Pembroke Pines, Florida.
[over radio]
[police car siren blaring]
This call comes out
of two people
possibly overdosed
inside Century Village.
Century Village being
the retirement community.
We have had, in the past,
elderly people with
you know, somebody is
terminal, they have
tried to take their pills,
and do themselves in.
That was where my mindset
went to initially,
that it must be
an elderly couple.
[siren wailing]
[Officer Anaya]  Officer Cusa
is the primary officer,
and I was dispatched
as the backup.
So, I am thinking,
I need to get there quick.
You don't know
what that other officer
can run into.
You don't wanna
leave them alone.
Century Village
is a city within a city.
The gate was very narrow
with big concrete columns
that allowed just barely
one vehicle to pass through.
As I am pulling up,
I see security,
and they are pointing
at this vehicle.
So, I am like, okay, I'm here.
I can see the male
is in the driver's seat.
I could see a female
in the passenger seat.
Lo and behold,
they were in their 30s.
And, that struck me as odd
because this is a
retirement community.
She was just
rolling her head back
and never opened her eyes.
The gentleman,
his pupils are pinpoint.
I can see little, clear
plastic baggies
with an off-white
powdery substance in there.
I couldn't tell
if it was heroin,
if it was cocaine.
But it definitely
was drug paraphernalia
of some sort.
He's not there.
It's almost like it's
not registering yet
what's going on and who I am
He just keeps, like,
looking around.
I was very close
to where the address was,
and I hadn't seen him yet.
So, I asked the dispatcher
to tell me again
the building name.
[over radio]
[Officer Cusack]  I am facin
the driver side window.
Officer Anaya says, "What's
the name of the building?"
And, I say,
"Cambridge and Mike."
The driver, he hits the gas
And, when I say
he hits the gas,
he floors it.
The left side of the car
is now pushing up
against me.
I am thinking,
"He's going to run me over.
I'm gonna go
underneath this car,
and I may be crushed."
So, I take my right hand,
and I grab
the top of the door frame.
My heels are just
sliding across the ground.
I am literally skiing,
holding on to the door.
Within 30-40 feet,
we are doing
about 45-miles-an-hour.
So, I just hold on
for dear life.
[siren blaring]
[Officer Anaya]  As I am
approaching where he was,
the vehicle was coming
around the corner
at high rate of speed,
and I saw Officer Cusack
hanging from
the driver's side door.
It was really shocking to se
I was thinking,
"How long is he
gonna get dragged?
How far is this car gonna go
It just keeps speeding up."
So, I made a U-turn
to get behind the car.
I didn't want
to get too close
because I didn't want
Officer Cusack to
dislodge from the vehicle,
and me strike him.
I knew that the potential
for me to get injured
went up the longer I held on.
But, he never slowed down.
And then I realized
that he is purposely
steering the vehicle
towards the tree line.
These are not
little, small trees.
These are huge, palm trees
that have been there
for decades.
If I hit that tree,
there's no way
I'm surviving that.
Fortunately, he then
jerked the vehicle
back to the right.
[over radio]
As we are still travelling,
he takes his left hand
and reaches up,
and starts to try
to pry my fingers
off the door frame.
It strikes me that
this is a person
without remorse,
and that, it doesn't matter
if he kills me.
Doesn't matter if I die,
to him.
I threatened to shoot him
because I felt, like,
maybe if I said this,
he would think about
what he is doing,
and go,
"You know what?
It's not worth it."
That's about the time
that the body cam falls off
My feet and legs are
now dragging behind me,
and I am just holding on
as I am being pulled.
It's about 200-feet
till you hit the exit gate.
I realized that
it's such a tight opening,
there's no way
that I'm going to
make it through
with the door open.
Something's gonna
have to give.
Right at the last second,
he brings the vehicle
to the right.
As he does that, I realize
this is my only opportunity
to let go.
I tucked in,
I just brought my hands in.
And, I basically absorbed
most of it on my forearms
as I slid across the pavemen
[Officer Anaya]  When he was
dislodged from the vehicle,
I quickly pulled over,
as close as I could, to him
He had a lot of injuries
to his elbows, his knees,
the top of his feet.
The shoes were worn down,
there was no shoe.
You could see
the flesh from his feet,
all the way down
to the bone in one foot.
I can tell he had
a lot of adrenaline
running through his body.
He wanted to get up,
but he had so many injuries
to his feet
that I wanted him to just
stay lying down
until rescue could
come to him.
[narrator]  Officer Wagner
waits for the suspect
by the entrance to
highway 595.
It's a main highway
leading east
to Fort Lauderdale.
I figured
that the suspect would
potentially take that route.
I am feeling anticipation
as he is approaching,
I am standing by,
waiting in the on-ramp
for only a matter of minutes.
As I pull up
behind the driver,
he was actually
smoking a cigarette.
Just looked like
he was out for a drive.
There's multiple
police vehicles
in the pursuit.
There's also
a Papa unit above,
which is the aviation unit.
[over radio]
Heavier traffic does slow
the speed of the pursuit dow
But, it causes concern
for safety for everyone else
on the highway.
[over radio]
[siren blaring]
At that time
we were able to grab
the suspect,
and place him into custody.
I would say
it was only a few minutes
from the time it happened
to the time
he was transported
by Rescue.
I remember being told
to stay on scene,
To remain on scene,
he was gonna be okay.
I was left in a scene where
his shoes were there,
his belt was lying
on the ground.
It was like,
what just happened?
I wanna
go to the hospital, too.
You know, I wanna go
and see if he's okay.
[Officer Cusack]  We get
to the hospital.
The nursing staff
cut what was left of my pants.
And that's when I could
actually look down and see.
From my knees to my toes,
there was tons
of different lacerations,
road rash,
there was
just a lot of flesh
that had been ripped off.
[Officer Wagner]  After the
stop, I did a search
of the vehicle.
[narrator]  Tests confirmed
the evidence found
in the suspect's vehicle
is heroin.
The suspect is identified
as 38-year-old
Thomas Cabrera.
Cabrera is charged
with fleeing police,
driving with
a suspended license,
and attempted murder
of a police officer.
His trial date is scheduled
for later this year.
[indistinct conversation]
The female passenger
is charged with
drug possession.
[indistinct speech]
Officer Cusack returns
to light duty
just three weeks later.
[Officer Cusack]  I would
say that this ranks
right up there, as far as,
one of the
most traumatic events
that I've ever been
involved in.
For a brief moment
I did consider,
"Is it time for me
to think about
something else?
Find a different career?"
My wife and my friends
were extremely supportive,
and influential,
and basically telling me,
don't let this one incident
define who you are,
or allow it to change
who you are.
So, coming back to the road
and being able to get back
in there,
put the uniform back on,
and go back on patrol,
was actually, probably,
the best thing for me.
[Officer Anaya]  I was glad
that the outcome
was what it was
versus what it could've been
Overall, when you
think about it,
you are, like,
it turned out okay,
Officer Cusack recovered.
And, it's just something tha
we're always gonna think bac
that we went through together.
[narrator]  100-miles south
of Atlanta, Georgia,
in Houston county,
is the 4-square mile
town of Centerville.
[over radio]
When responding
to domestic disturbance,
you never understand
what you are
going to deal with.
You can walk into
a calm situation,
you can walk into a situatio
where everything
is breaking loose.
So, you really want
a primary officer,
and a backup officer.
It's just me
and Corporal Mashuga
working that night
in the area.
So, we both respond.
We didn't approach
with sirens or lights,
of course,
because it wasn't
a major call,
it wasn't a physical domesti
Upon my arrival,
Corporal Mashuga
was at the front door
of the address.
So, I was able to park my ca
get out and start
walking up towards him.
[gunshot]
[Officer Wilcox over radio]
I see Corporal Mashuga.
I knock on the door,
I step back down the steps.
At that time, the garage doo
to the right of me opens up
and a female walks out.
All she told me
is that he is drunk,
he just needs to go to sleep.
I see out the corner of my e
the front door open up
and the male stepped out.
He had a handgun
pointed at me.
I was completely
taken by surprise.
[gunshot]
[Corporal Mashuga]
As the shot was fired,
almost instantaneously,
I could feel a sharp pain
in my stomach.
Officer Wilcox had arrived
on scene.
I was able to get back
on my feet
and run to the
back of his vehicle.
[Corporal Mashuga]
[Officer Wilcox]
Ultimately, he was just
trying to figure out,
one, where he was shot.
[Corporal Mashuga]
And two, where is the shooter?
I didn't know
if this person
was coming after us.
I didn't know
if he was behind us.
[narrator]  Units from the
neighboring town
of Warner Robins
are called in to help.
[Officer Karl]  A dispatcher
comes over the radio,
and said, I need units
en route to Centerville.
An officer is hit.
That's not something
that comes over the radio
very often.
I'm on a SWAT team.
And on top of that,
I'm a medic in the reserves
Sooner I got there,
the faster I could help.
[Officer Wilcox]
[Officer Wilcox]  My partner
is shot,
is very unlucky,
because you've got armor
that covers your whole chest
and this just happen to go,
maybe an inch or two lower
than the armor was.
I mean, you've got
a bunch of organs,
intestines, everything
in that area.
[Corporal Mashuga]  I gave
a description of the subjec
so we can contain the scene
Worrying about him
leaving the area,
putting more officers at risk.
[Officer Wilcox]  Out of the
corner of my eye,
I see somebody standing
at the side of the house.
Kind of clicked,
that was the person
that was at the garage.
[narrator]  The woman
is the shooter's girlfriend
and was part of the
domestic disturbance.
I thought at that point
she was pretty
intoxicated, too.
[Officer Thomas]  As we pull
on the scene,
I've charged the weapon,
put a line in chamber,
in case I have to
immediately use it.
We make it over to the
Centerville PD officer's car
So, officer Wilcox
is explaining to me
what the situation is.
[narrator]  More officers
arrive,
and set up a perimeter.
Based on her actions
and statements,
obviously, she really wasn'
coherent enough to comply.
I felt a large blow
to my right foot.
I am thinking,
you're kidding.
You got shot earlier,
and here you are
getting shot again.
So, I start scanning
for the suspect,
I need to stop the threat.
Eventually, I see
his muzzle flashes.
So, I line up my sights
and I shoot at him.
At that point I didn't know
whether I hit him or not.
I knew Corporal Mashuga
was gonna need surgery
for that abdominal wound.
I wanted to get him
out of there
as soon as possible.
[Officer Wilcox]  EMS was no
not going to respond
to an active shooter
situation.
Only way to get
Corporal Mashuga out of there
was to put him in my vehicle.
The only thought I had
was to get him to the hospit
as fast as possible.
We didn't really have
a step-by-step game plan.
It was just, one,
get out of there fast,
and two, get him
to emergency medical care.
[siren wailing]
[police car siren wailing]
[Officer Wilcox] So, as I am
headed to our local
medical center,
at that point, they notify me
that they do not deal with
gunshot wound victims.
So, we made the plan
to have EMS meet me,
and exchange Corporal Mashug
and let him go
to county hospital.
[narrator]  On the perimeter
a relative of the shooter
arrives on scene.
The shooter's sister
approaches an officer
and gives the name
Harry Baggett.
And, also informs him that
the suspect has been injured.
[helicopter whirring]
[narrator]  Deputy Thomas
continues to try to get
the shooter's girlfriend
to safety.
I wanted her off the scene
for her safety.
And, so that we could get
some more information
on what's going on
inside the house,
and what led
up to this call being made.
[gunshot]
Another shot rang out.
He's still obviously a threa
That's the first time
we realized that
he is still with us,
after I shot him.
I requested the BearCat
because it's
an armored vehicle.
Attempting to get
the suspect
out of the house,
and, into custody,
so that we can end
this whole situation
without anybody else
getting injured.
[helicopter hovering]
[narrator]  Until the
armored vehicle arrives,
it's a stand-off.
There's a procedure
that we go through
whenever we have
barricaded gunman.
If we can't make contact
with him,
or if they are
refusing to comply,
there are ways that we can
coax them out of their house.
[helicopter hovering]
One of those ways is using
CS type of gases.
[narrator]  CS gas
is commonly referred to as
tear gas.
[tear gas sound]
The Houston County SRT
uses a 40-mm grenade launcher
to put these gases
through the window.
He did not exit the house
because of the gas.
[Corporal Mashuga]  When I
got to the hospital,
I went into emergency surger
for my stomach wounds.
A bullet went in
right below my belly button.
It did damage
some of my intestine.
During the surgery,
they removed a section of the
damaged intestine,
and removed the bullet
from inside my stomach,
wherever it was at.
[narrator]  The 10-ton BearCa
arrives on scene.
We're gonna make a dual entry
with the
Sheriff's department SRT,
who is gonna go upstairs,
the top of the house.
The Warner Robins
Police Department SWAT team
was gonna go into the
bottom of the house.
[narrator]  Eight hours
after the initial 911 call,
law enforcement enters
the suspect's residence.
[Officer Karl]  The SRT
eventually locates him
in the attic area,
and is able to take him
into custody
without any further incident.
[narrator]  Investigators
find an improvised
fighting position,
and weapons stashed
all over the house.
They also find evidence
that Officer Thomas' shots
found their target.
[Officer Karl] One
disabled the weapon.
And then, one of the rounds
hit his finger,
left his finger
lying right there
on the ledge.
He also took his own blood
and was writing on the walls
[narrator]  Harry Baggett
is sentenced
to 100 years in prison
for criminal attempt
to commit malice murder,
and aggravated assault
on a peace officer.
45-year-old Baggett
won't be eligible for parol
for 60 years.
I just didn't understand.
I didn't understand
what the reason behind it was.
[gunshot]
What made him, you know,
wanna just
have an all-out
standoff with police
for a domestic that
we were to come out,
separate the parties.
Nobody would've been
arrested at that point.
[narrator]  Corporal Mashuga
returns to light duty
two months after the shootin
I do believe
that all the officers
that responded that night
did save my life.
And that I owe them something
I'll never be able to
pay back.
[Officer Karl]  I've trained
for a lot of my life,
and until you're
in that situation,
you really don't know
how you're gonna do.
And I was able to perform.
[Officer Thomas]  It doesn't
any good living
the rest of my life
having hard feelings about it.
I mean, I signed up
for this job
knowing the risks,
and I knew
that this was possible.
But, I'm not gonna live
the rest of my life
angry about it.
[narrator]  20-miles
north of Detroit,
is the suburb of
Clinton Township.
Sergeant David Holdwick
with Clinton Township PD
is working the Sunday shift
Typically, a Sunday patrol
shift is slower than normal.
Businesses are closed,
schools are closed,
lighter traffic.
Even though it was a Sunday
there's still people drivin
in excess of the speed limit
As this vehicle went past me
it was abundantly apparent
how fast he was going.
I immediately
put the car in gear,
and went to go stop him.
[police car siren wailing]
[narrator]  Just up the road
is Macomb County Sherriff's
Deputy Jake Stark,
and his trainee deputy.
Our dispatch aired
that Clinton Township
Police Department
was chasing a suspect,
northbound on Dalcoma,
exactly where we were.
We back them on big incident
We never want
any police officer
to be by himself.
In our minds, we ultimately
had to think
pretty quickly on our feet
to try and get involved
in this pursuit.
I knew at that point
he wasn't running
simply because he didn't
want a traffic ticket.
There was something else
going on.
[narrator]  Back down the roa
officers want to find out
exactly what
the driver of the vehicle
was getting rid of.
[Deputy Stark]  When they
told us
that the suspect had thrown
something out of the window
we don't know what it is
at that time,
which makes the chase
a little more serious.
We don't know what he is into,
or who he is.
We don't for certain,
but there could be
a potential of a weapon
inside that vehicle.
I didn't know that
the Sheriff's department
was near
until I looked into
my rearview mirror,
and saw their flashing light
[Deputy Stark]  When we
approached officer Holdwick
we have to go
by what he is doing.
He is the lead officer,
he's the one
in charge right now.
It's not
like a normal pursuit.
You know,
the suspect was driving
at a slower rate of speed.
[Sgt Holdwick]  As we
approached the first
traffic lights,
the thing
that struck me as odd is,
the car stopped
at the red light,
like you would
for normal traffic.
I've never seen
someone stop at red lights,
while they were
actually trying to get away.
When the vehicle stopped,
my thought process
was that he was going to
open the door,
and take off running.
And, it was
then going to
turn into a foot pursuit.
But he continued to drive.
[police car siren blaring]
[Deputy Stark]  The best way
to get him to stop
is to get him to slow down,
and to get him boxed in,
to allow him not to be able
go left or right.
Unfortunately, we only had
two patrol cars at this time
So, he was able to
get out of our box.
So, as the pursuit
went northbound
on Van Dyke,
approaching Hall Road,
we had a red light.
Hall Road would be
the last road,
that I would pick to
run a red light at.
That's when things really go
serious for me.
There's a chance
that he is now
endangering the public.
[police car siren blaring]
[Officer Stark]  As we cross
Hall Road,
you know, your mind
is going a thousand miles.
You wanna make sure and hope
that the suspect
is not gonna crash.
There was one vehicle
in particular
that he almost collided with
It was pretty close
to a miracle
that nobody got
severely injured
going through
those intersections.
[Former Deputy] There were
other vehicles
that back-traced
the steps of
where the pursuit was.
And then that's when
they found the narcotics.
[Deputy Stark]  Once we
found out there is narcotics
there's a reason
he is running.
He could have
a lot more narcotics in there.
[Officer Stark]  We don't kno
if he does have a gun
at this point.
We did see him reach into
his center console
multiple times.
So that obviously has
heightened our awareness
way more
than just a normal pursuit.
So, we are now
approximately 8-10 miles
north of where
the actual pursuit started.
We are trying to do
everything we can
to stop the suspect
before he can continue.
Once we turned eastbound
on 27 Mile Road,
his speeds definitely
were increased.
[Sgt Holdwick]  We are enteri
more of a farm land.
More dirt roads,
getting away from subdivisions
and neighborhoods,
and more into open country.
We actually had
a second Clinton Township ca
joining the pursuit.
We could see
the Sheriff's Department
vehicle ahead
with its overhead
lights activated.
[Deputy Stark]  There's no ca
in plain sight.
It's a country-style road.
Knowing the road
and knowing we were at,
I knew we would hit gravel
at that rate of speed.
There's a good chance
that one of us
could lose control.
[Former Deputy]  As soon as
we hit the dirt road,
I knew that this chase
was gonna end soon.
I knew that his options
of where he was gonna go,
was running thin.
And, now we're
going into an area
that we are not
100% familiar with.
But he may be
very familiar with.
I did consider
that there was the potential
of us getting involved
in some sort of ambush.
[Former Deputy]  When he
started slowing up
as we are behind him,
I wanted to have the advanta
of having my door
somewhat open.
If he fled on foot,
I get out,
and then chase him on foot.
[Deputy Stark]  My number on
concern was does he know
the people that live here?
Are there going to be peopl
waiting for us
behind the house?
We don't know at that time,
so, our awareness
is definitely very high.
There was dense woods
behind the house
that he went into.
I knew that as he
pulled in that driveway,
that he was gonna
make a dash for those woods
I saw
that there was a big ditch.
Unfortunately, the suspect
was able to up and over
that ditch,
and then crash
into a set of trees.
And then, took off on foot.
I am not familiar
with the area.
We don't know
what he is doing out there,
we don't know
if he has a gun on him.
It definitely makes it
lot more dangerous.
[Former Deputy]  As the vehic
is approaching the backyard
I'm thinking in my mind,
this individual
could either have
more drugs on him,
or the biggest thing is,
he has a weapon.
Deputy Stark began
pursuing him on foot.
I went the other way,
opposite of
where he was going,
so that all points of entry
were covered.
And, all the points
of him exiting the field
were covered as well.
[Deputy Stark]  As we see
his car come to a stop,
there's wood everywhere.
We don't know
where he is at that point.
Fortunately for us,
I was able to locate him,
give him
multiple verbal commands
to stop, stop running,
let him know that
the police are here.
And he continued
to run on foot.
[Former Deputy]  The terrain
was awful.
We didn't know
exactly what was in the wate
if there were any trenches,
or if the water was
going to get deeper.
We had no idea.
If I'm in deep waters,
and he's out of deep waters
and, he does engage me,
I am an open target.
The further
we got into the woods,
the more water there was.
There was probably a good
1-and-a-half
to 2-feet of water,
that we are running through
which makes our clothes
that much more weighted down
I was approximately 30 yard
from where the suspect was.
All I was trying to do
was keep an eye on him,
even if didn't gain
ground on him.
I didn't know if I was
going to encounter him
laying down, behind the tree.
I didn't know
if I was walking
into an ambush.
I didn't know
if I had to engage
this individual,
if this individual
was going to start
firing upon me.
[Deputy Stark]  There's
multiple times
when he looked back
to see where we were.
But, we don't know
why he's looking back at us
We don't know if he has
a gun in his hand.
The terrain
that we are running through
was a lot of water.
We got tired, he got tired.
[Former Deputy]  I was
trying to find
any sort of tree,
or any thick brush
that I can get behind,
and get some form
of concealment.
I was keeping my eye
out for him
because I didn't know
exactly where he was.
[Former Deputy]  I knew
the general direction
of travel,
and I can see a break
that opened up
to a more open area.
When I saw that,
I thought to myself,
"Okay, this is where
the suspect is going."
[Deputy Stark]  Fortunately,
I was able to see
his hands to know
that he didn't have
any weapons
in his hand at the time.
And that he was probably
just looking to see
exactly where we were.
I come out of the woods,
and at that point,
I know his hands
are in the air,
but we don't know
if he can make any
sudden movement.
So, I do pull my gun.
I could hear my trainee,
along with another officer,
yelling verbal commands,
for him to get down
on the ground,
and put his hand
behind his back.
Once I hear that,
my adrenaline is running.
We eventually take the suspect
into custody.
[narrator]  The items thrown
out of the suspect's car
test positive for cocaine.
The suspect is
Aniano-Arialo Mora.
He pleads no contest
to multiple charges,
including fleeing an officer
and possession of narcotics
under 25 grams.
He is sentenced to
two years probation,
and released into
substance abuse treatment.
Anytime that you assist
another department
in a big incident,
we're all one team.
At the end of the day,
we wanna make sure
that they're safe,
they wanna make sure
that we are safe.
I think that really made thi
the best outcome possible.
Nobody wearing a badge
got hurt that day,
no civilians were injured
that day,
the suspect wasn't injured
that day.
That's ultimately
what you want,
being in law enforcement.